website/blog/2025-09-25-hacktoberfest.md, before:

---
title: Hacktoberfest 2025! - Contribute to Podman Desktop
description: Contribute to Podman Desktop this Hacktoberfest!
slug: hacktoberfest-2025
authors: [rujutashinde]
tags: [podman-desktop, hacktoberfest]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

# Hacktoberfest 2025! - Contribute to Podman Desktop

October is here and [**Hacktoberfest**](https://hacktoberfest.com/) is back! It’s the perfect opportunity to sharpen your skills, explore open source, and contribute to [**Podman Desktop** ](https://podman-desktop.io/) — an open source tool designed to simplify working with containers and Kubernetes from your local machine.

## Why Contribute to Podman Desktop?

Podman Desktop is built with developers in mind. **Designed by developers, for developers** !!
It’s a cross-platform tool that helps streamline container workflows, offering features like:

- **Container management** Manage your containers, images, and pods directly from your desktop.
- **Kubernetes integration** Run and test workloads in a local Kubernetes environment.
- **Extension framework** Build custom extensions to expand and personalize the desktop experience.
- **Modern tech stack** Contribute using TypeScript, Svelte, Tailwind CSS, Electron, Playwright and more!

And really—what could be more rewarding for a developer than working on a tool that benefits both our peers and ourselves?

Whether you’re fixing a bug, enhancing the UI, or creating a new extension, your contributions will help shape the next generation of container tooling.

## Contribution Areas

Here are some ways developers can get involved:

- 🐛 **Bug Fixes** – Help identify and resolve issues in the desktop app.
- 📝 **Documentation** – Refine guides and technical docs to make it easier for others to onboard.
- 🔌 **Extensions** – Build or improve extensions to extend Podman Desktop’s functionality.
- 🎨 **UI/UX Improvements** – Enhance user experience for smoother workflows.

## How to Get Started

1. Browse the GitHub repo for [issues](https://github.com/podman-desktop/podman-desktop/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3Ahacktoberfest) tagged `hacktoberfest`.
2. Join our [community channels](https://github.com/podman-desktop/podman-desktop/tree/main?tab=readme-ov-file#communication) for guidance and collaboration.
3. Fork, code, and submit your PR. Once merged, your work counts toward Hacktoberfest!

Learn more about Hacktoberfest participation [here](https://hacktoberfest.com/participation/).

## Let’s Build Together

Every contribution, whether big or small, makes Podman Desktop stronger for developers everywhere. Hacktoberfest is your chance to get involved, expand your skills, and make an impact.

👉 Start here:

- [Podman Desktop GitHub](https://github.com/containers/podman-desktop)
- [Contribution Guide](https://github.com/containers/podman-desktop/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
- [Readme](https://github.com/containers/podman-desktop/blob/main/README.md)
- [Hacktoberfest issues](https://github.com/podman-desktop/podman-desktop/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3Ahacktoberfest)

This Hacktoberfest, let’s build better container workflows together. 💻🔥

Commit message:

chore: added cncf,3m downloads, and peer help mentions Signed-off-by: Rujuta Shinde <rushinde@redhat.com>

website/blog/2025-09-25-hacktoberfest.md, after:

---
title: Hacktoberfest 2025! - Contribute to Podman Desktop
description: Contribute to Podman Desktop this Hacktoberfest!
slug: hacktoberfest-2025
authors: [rujutashinde]
tags: [podman-desktop, hacktoberfest, community]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

# Hacktoberfest 2025! - Contribute to Podman Desktop

October is here and [**Hacktoberfest**](https://hacktoberfest.com/) is back! It’s the perfect opportunity to sharpen your skills, explore open source, and contribute to [**Podman Desktop** ](https://podman-desktop.io/) — an open source tool designed to simplify working with containers and Kubernetes from your local machine.

## Why Contribute to Podman Desktop?

Podman Desktop is a [CNCF](https://www.cncf.io/) sandbox project and has already grown into a thriving open source community with over [**3 million downloads worldwide**](https://podman-desktop.io/blog). By contributing, you’re not only helping shape a successful, widely used project, but also joining a community of developers building tools that benefit peers and the broader ecosystem.

Podman Desktop is built with developers in mind. **Designed by developers, for developers** !!
It’s a cross-platform tool that helps streamline container workflows, offering features like:

- **Container management** Manage your containers, images, and pods directly from your desktop.
- **Kubernetes integration** Run and test workloads in a local Kubernetes environment.
- **Extension framework** Build custom extensions to expand and personalize the desktop experience.
- **Modern tech stack** Contribute using TypeScript, Svelte, Tailwind CSS, Electron, Playwright and more!

Whether you’re fixing a bug, enhancing the UI, or creating a new extension, your contributions will help shape the next generation of container tooling.

## Contribution Areas

Here are some ways developers can get involved:

- 🐛 **Bug Fixes** – Help identify and resolve issues in the desktop app.
- 📝 **Documentation** – Refine guides and technical docs to make it easier for others to onboard.
- 🔌 **Extensions** – Build or improve extensions to extend Podman Desktop’s functionality.
- 🎨 **UI/UX Improvements** – Enhance user experience for smoother workflows.

## How to Get Started

1. Browse the GitHub repo for [issues](https://github.com/podman-desktop/podman-desktop/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3Ahacktoberfest) tagged `hacktoberfest`.
2. Join our [community channels](https://github.com/podman-desktop/podman-desktop/tree/main?tab=readme-ov-file#communication) for guidance and collaboration.
3. Fork, code, and submit your PR. Once merged, your work counts toward Hacktoberfest!

Learn more about Hacktoberfest participation [here](https://hacktoberfest.com/participation/).

## Let’s Build Together

Every contribution, whether big or small, makes Podman Desktop stronger for developers everywhere. Hacktoberfest is your chance to get involved, expand your skills, and make an impact.

👉 Start here:

- [Podman Desktop GitHub](https://github.com/containers/podman-desktop)
- [Contribution Guide](https://github.com/containers/podman-desktop/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
- [Readme](https://github.com/containers/podman-desktop/blob/main/README.md)
- [Hacktoberfest issues](https://github.com/podman-desktop/podman-desktop/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3Ahacktoberfest)

This Hacktoberfest, let’s build better container workflows together. 💻🔥
