website/docs/configuration/managed-configuration.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 10
title: Configuring a managed user environment
description: Using managed configuration to enforce settings in enterprise environments.
tags: [podman-desktop, configuration, enterprise, managed]
keywords: [podman desktop, configuration, managed, enterprise, locked, admin, policy]
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Configuring a managed user environment

In enterprise environments, administrators can enforce specific configuration values that users are unable to override. This capability allows them to manage configurations, such as proxy servers, telemetry policies, and security policies, ensuring users operate within a controlled environment. Administrators can review and edit the configurations in the user settings file before applying the changes globally to all enterprise users.

## How it works

Podman Desktop stores values for the following types of configuration in three separate JSON files:

1. **User configuration** - Editable user-enforced values for Podman Desktop customization.
2. **Managed defaults configuration** - Read-only administrator-enforced default values that cannot be edited by the user.
3. **Locked configuration** - Read-only administrator-enforced list of keys that must use managed values.

When a configuration changes, Podman Desktop returns a value after checking the user configuration files in the following priority order:

1. **Locked keys** - Return a value from the managed defaults configuration file, which is of highest priority
2. **Unlocked keys** - Return a value from the user configuration file
3. **Default value** - Returns the default value built into Podman Desktop

## File locations

<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">

_User configuration_

- Location: `~/.local/share/containers/podman-desktop/configuration/settings.json`
- Permissions: User read/write
- Purpose: Normal user settings configured through the UI

_Managed defaults_

- Location: `/usr/share/podman-desktop/default-settings.json`
- Permissions: Root only
- Purpose: Administrator-enforced configuration values

_Locked configuration_

- Location: `/usr/share/podman-desktop/locked.json`
- Permissions: Root only
- Purpose: List of configuration keys that are locked by an administrator

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="mac" label="macOS">

_User configuration_

- Location: `~/.local/share/containers/podman-desktop/configuration/settings.json`
- Permissions: User read/write
- Purpose: Normal user settings configured through the UI

_Managed defaults_

- Location: `/Library/Application Support/io.podman_desktop.PodmanDesktop/default-settings.json`
- Permissions: Administrator only
- Purpose: Administrator-enforced configuration values

_Locked configuration_

- Location: `/Library/Application Support/io.podman_desktop.PodmanDesktop/locked.json`
- Permissions: Administrator only
- Purpose: List of configuration keys that are locked by an administrator

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="win" label="Windows">

_User configuration_

- Location: `%APPDATA%\podman-desktop\configuration\settings.json`
- Permissions: User read/write
- Purpose: Normal user settings configured through the UI

_Managed defaults_

- Location: `%PROGRAMDATA%\Podman Desktop\default-settings.json`
- Permissions: Administrator only
- Purpose: Administrator-enforced configuration values

_Locked configuration_

- Location: `%PROGRAMDATA%\Podman Desktop\locked.json`
- Permissions: Administrator only
- Purpose: List of configuration keys that are locked by an administrator

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Example: Enforcing corporate proxy and telemetry settings

This example demonstrates how an administrator can lock the proxy and telemetry configuration to enforce corporate policy.

#### Procedure

1. Create a managed defaults file with corporate settings.
2. Create a locked configuration file to enforce the corporate settings.
3. Deploy both files to the appropriate system location.
4. Restart Podman Desktop, the managed values will override user-configured values and enforce compliance.

### User Configuration

The user has configured a local proxy in their settings:

```json title="~/.local/share/containers/podman-desktop/configuration/settings.json"
{
  "proxy.http": "https://127.0.0.1:8081",
  "telemetry.enabled": true
}
```

### Managed Defaults Configuration

The administrator creates a managed defaults file with corporate settings:

<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">

```json title="/usr/share/containers/podman-desktop/default-settings.json"
{
  "proxy.http": "http://corp-proxy.example.com:8080",
  "telemetry.enabled": false
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="mac" label="macOS">

```json title="/Library/Application Support/io.podman_desktop.PodmanDesktop/default-settings.json"
{
  "proxy.http": "http://corp-proxy.example.com:8080",
  "telemetry.enabled": false
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="win" label="Windows">

```json title="%PROGRAMDATA%\Podman Desktop\default-settings.json"
{
  "proxy.http": "http://corp-proxy.example.com:8080",
  "telemetry.enabled": false
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Locked Configuration

The administrator creates a locked configuration file to enforce these settings:

<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">

```json title="/usr/share/containers/podman-desktop/locked.json"
{
  "locked": ["proxy.http", "telemetry.enabled"]
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="mac" label="macOS">

```json title="/Library/Application Support/io.podman_desktop.PodmanDesktop/locked.json"
{
  "locked": ["proxy.http", "telemetry.enabled"]
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="win" label="Windows">

```json title="%PROGRAMDATA%\Podman Desktop\locked.json"
{
  "locked": ["proxy.http", "telemetry.enabled"]
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Result

With this configuration in place, Podman Desktop returns:

```json
{
  "proxy.http": "http://corp-proxy.example.com:8080",
  "telemetry.enabled": false
}
```

**Key observations:**

- `proxy.http` - Returns managed value, user's local proxy is ignored
- `telemetry.enabled` - Returns managed value, user cannot enable telemetry (set to false)

:::tip

As an administrator, you can implement several use cases to customize user settings based on your enterprise needs and apply those changes globally across your enterprise. For a comprehensive list of common use cases and examples, see [Managed configuration use cases](/docs/configuration/managed-configuration-use-cases).

:::

## Deploying a managed configuration

#### Procedure

<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">

**Step 1: Create configuration files**

Save the following files at `/usr/share/podman-desktop/`:

_Managed defaults file:_

```json title="/usr/share/podman-desktop/default-settings.json"
{
  "proxy.http": "http://proxy.corp.example.com:8080",
  "telemetry.enabled": false
}
```

_Locked configuration file:_

```json title="/usr/share/podman-desktop/locked.json"
{
  "locked": ["proxy.http", "telemetry.enabled"]
}
```

**Step 2: Deploy using a deployment tool**

Choose a deployment tool: Ansible, Puppet, Chef, Salt, RPM/DEB packages, or shell scripts.

**Step 3: Verify the deployment**

1. Restart Podman Desktop.

2. Go to **Help > Troubleshooting**, and select the **Logs** tab to check for messages such as:

   ```
   [Managed-by]: Loaded managed ...
   ```

3. Verify that locked settings cannot be changed through the UI.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="mac" label="macOS">

**Step 1: Create configuration files**

Save the following files at `/Library/Application Support/io.podman_desktop.PodmanDesktop/`:

_Managed defaults file:_

```json title="/Library/Application Support/io.podman_desktop.PodmanDesktop/default-settings.json"
{
  "proxy.http": "http://proxy.corp.example.com:8080",
  "telemetry.enabled": false
}
```

_Locked configuration file:_

```json title="/Library/Application Support/io.podman_desktop.PodmanDesktop/locked.json"
{
  "locked": ["proxy.http", "telemetry.enabled"]
}
```

**Step 2: Deploy using a deployment tool**

Choose a deployment tool: Jamf Pro, Microsoft Intune, Kandji, SimpleMDM, Ansible, or PKG installers.

**Step 3: Verify the deployment**

1. Restart Podman Desktop.

2. Go to **Help > Troubleshooting**, and select the **Logs** tab to check for messages such as:

   ```
   [Managed-by]: Loaded managed ...
   ```

3. Verify that locked settings cannot be changed through the UI.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="win" label="Windows">

**Step 1: Create configuration files**

Save the following files at `%PROGRAMDATA%\Podman Desktop\`:

_Managed defaults file:_

```json title="%PROGRAMDATA%\Podman Desktop\default-settings.json"
{
  "proxy.http": "http://proxy.corp.example.com:8080",
  "telemetry.enabled": false
}
```

_Locked configuration file:_

```json title="%PROGRAMDATA%\Podman Desktop\locked.json"
{
  "locked": ["proxy.http", "telemetry.enabled"]
}
```

**Step 2: Deploy using a deployment tool**

Choose a deployment tool: Group Policy, Microsoft Intune, SCCM, Ansible, or PowerShell scripts.

**Step 3: Verify the deployment**

1. Restart Podman Desktop.

2. Go to **Help > Troubleshooting**, and select the **Logs** tab to check for messages such as:

   ```
   [Managed-by]: Loaded managed ...
   ```

3. Verify that locked settings cannot be changed through the UI.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Locked configuration impact on users

When a setting is locked:

- **In the UI**: The setting appears grayed out or displays a lock icon
- **Editing settings.json**: Changes to locked keys in the user's file are ignored
- **Console output**: Log messages indicate when locked values are being used

:::note

Users are notified when settings are managed by administrators, ensuring transparency about which settings they can and cannot control.

:::

## Additional resources

- [Troubleshooting managed configuration](/docs/configuration/managed-configuration-troubleshooting)

- [Managed configuration use cases](/docs/configuration/managed-configuration-use-cases)
- [Configuration settings reference](/docs/configuration/settings-reference)
- [Configuration API Documentation](/api)
- [Extension Configuration Guide](/docs/extensions/developing/config)

## Next steps

- [Configure proxy settings](/docs/proxy)
- [Manage extensions](/docs/extensions)

Commit message:

chore(docs): elaborate more on managed-by config settings
### What does this PR do?

Updates the documentation with more information with regards to more
eloration on how `default-settings.json` works, as well as `locked.json`
information.

### Screenshot / video of UI

<!-- If this PR is changing UI, please include
screenshots or screencasts showing the difference -->

N/A

### What issues does this PR fix or reference?

<!-- Include any related issues from Podman Desktop
repository (or from another issue tracker). -->

Closes https://github.com/podman-desktop/podman-desktop/issues/15198

### How to test this PR?

<!-- Please explain steps to verify the functionality,
do not forget to provide unit/component tests -->

N/A, it's docs!

Signed-off-by: Charlie Drage <charlie@charliedrage.com>

website/docs/configuration/managed-configuration.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 10
title: Configuring a managed user environment
description: Using managed configuration to enforce settings in enterprise environments.
tags: [podman-desktop, configuration, enterprise, managed]
keywords: [podman desktop, configuration, managed, enterprise, locked, admin, policy]
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Configuring a managed user environment

In enterprise environments, administrators can enforce specific configuration values that users are unable to override. This capability allows them to manage configurations, such as proxy servers, telemetry policies, and security policies, ensuring users operate within a controlled environment. Administrators can review and edit the configurations in the user settings file before applying the changes globally to all enterprise users.

## How it works

Podman Desktop stores values for the following types of configuration in three separate JSON files:

1. **User configuration** - Editable user-enforced values for Podman Desktop customization.
2. **Managed defaults configuration** - Read-only administrator-enforced default values that cannot be edited by the user.
3. **Locked configuration** - Read-only administrator-enforced list of keys that must use managed values.

### Default settings

On startup, Podman Desktop checks `default-settings.json` and applies any settings that don't already exist in the user's `settings.json`. This is a one-time copy per setting:

- Settings already in the user's `settings.json` are not overwritten
- Settings that match the built-in schema default are not copied (to avoid unnecessary entries)
- Only settings that differ from the schema default are persisted to `settings.json`

This allows administrators to pre-configure settings for new users while respecting existing user preferences.

### Locked settings

Settings listed in `locked.json` are enforced on every read and cannot be changed by the user:

- The value is always read from `default-settings.json`, ignoring the user's `settings.json`
- The setting appears displays a lock icon in the UI
- User changes to locked keys are ignored

Use locked settings when you need to enforce compliance, such as proxy servers or telemetry policies.

### Configuration priority

When a configuration changes, Podman Desktop returns a value after checking the user configuration files in the following priority order:

1. **Locked keys** - Return a value from the managed defaults configuration file, which is of highest priority
2. **Unlocked keys** - Return a value from the user configuration file
3. **Default value** - Returns the default value built into Podman Desktop

## File locations

<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">

_User configuration_

- Location: `~/.local/share/containers/podman-desktop/configuration/settings.json`
- Permissions: User read/write
- Purpose: Normal user settings configured through the UI

_Managed defaults_

- Location: `/usr/share/podman-desktop/default-settings.json`
- Permissions: Root only
- Purpose: Administrator-enforced configuration values

_Locked configuration_

- Location: `/usr/share/podman-desktop/locked.json`
- Permissions: Root only
- Purpose: List of configuration keys that are locked by an administrator

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="mac" label="macOS">

_User configuration_

- Location: `~/.local/share/containers/podman-desktop/configuration/settings.json`
- Permissions: User read/write
- Purpose: Normal user settings configured through the UI

_Managed defaults_

- Location: `/Library/Application Support/io.podman_desktop.PodmanDesktop/default-settings.json`
- Permissions: Administrator only
- Purpose: Administrator-enforced configuration values

_Locked configuration_

- Location: `/Library/Application Support/io.podman_desktop.PodmanDesktop/locked.json`
- Permissions: Administrator only
- Purpose: List of configuration keys that are locked by an administrator

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="win" label="Windows">

_User configuration_

- Location: `%APPDATA%\podman-desktop\configuration\settings.json`
- Permissions: User read/write
- Purpose: Normal user settings configured through the UI

_Managed defaults_

- Location: `%PROGRAMDATA%\Podman Desktop\default-settings.json`
- Permissions: Administrator only
- Purpose: Administrator-enforced configuration values

_Locked configuration_

- Location: `%PROGRAMDATA%\Podman Desktop\locked.json`
- Permissions: Administrator only
- Purpose: List of configuration keys that are locked by an administrator

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Example: Enforcing corporate proxy and telemetry settings

This example demonstrates how an administrator can lock the proxy and telemetry configuration to enforce corporate policy.

#### Procedure

1. Create a managed defaults file with corporate settings.
2. Create a locked configuration file to enforce the corporate settings.
3. Deploy both files to the appropriate system location.
4. Restart Podman Desktop, the managed values will override user-configured values and enforce compliance.

### User Configuration

The user has configured a local proxy in their settings:

```json title="~/.local/share/containers/podman-desktop/configuration/settings.json"
{
  "proxy.http": "https://127.0.0.1:8081",
  "telemetry.enabled": true
}
```

### Managed Defaults Configuration

The administrator creates a managed defaults file with corporate settings:

<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">

```json title="/usr/share/containers/podman-desktop/default-settings.json"
{
  "proxy.http": "http://corp-proxy.example.com:8080",
  "telemetry.enabled": false
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="mac" label="macOS">

```json title="/Library/Application Support/io.podman_desktop.PodmanDesktop/default-settings.json"
{
  "proxy.http": "http://corp-proxy.example.com:8080",
  "telemetry.enabled": false
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="win" label="Windows">

```json title="%PROGRAMDATA%\Podman Desktop\default-settings.json"
{
  "proxy.http": "http://corp-proxy.example.com:8080",
  "telemetry.enabled": false
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Locked Configuration

The administrator creates a locked configuration file to enforce these settings:

<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">

```json title="/usr/share/containers/podman-desktop/locked.json"
{
  "locked": ["proxy.http", "telemetry.enabled"]
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="mac" label="macOS">

```json title="/Library/Application Support/io.podman_desktop.PodmanDesktop/locked.json"
{
  "locked": ["proxy.http", "telemetry.enabled"]
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="win" label="Windows">

```json title="%PROGRAMDATA%\Podman Desktop\locked.json"
{
  "locked": ["proxy.http", "telemetry.enabled"]
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Result

With this configuration in place, Podman Desktop returns:

```json
{
  "proxy.http": "http://corp-proxy.example.com:8080",
  "telemetry.enabled": false
}
```

**Key observations:**

- `proxy.http` - Returns managed value, user's local proxy is ignored
- `telemetry.enabled` - Returns managed value, user cannot enable telemetry (set to false)

:::tip

As an administrator, you can implement several use cases to customize user settings based on your enterprise needs and apply those changes globally across your enterprise. For a comprehensive list of common use cases and examples, see [Managed configuration use cases](/docs/configuration/managed-configuration-use-cases).

:::

## Deploying a managed configuration

#### Procedure

<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">

**Step 1: Create configuration files**

Save the following files at `/usr/share/podman-desktop/`:

_Managed defaults file:_

```json title="/usr/share/podman-desktop/default-settings.json"
{
  "proxy.http": "http://proxy.corp.example.com:8080",
  "telemetry.enabled": false
}
```

_Locked configuration file:_

```json title="/usr/share/podman-desktop/locked.json"
{
  "locked": ["proxy.http", "telemetry.enabled"]
}
```

**Step 2: Deploy using a deployment tool**

Choose a deployment tool: Ansible, Puppet, Chef, Salt, RPM/DEB packages, or shell scripts.

**Step 3: Verify the deployment**

1. Restart Podman Desktop.

2. Go to **Help > Troubleshooting**, and select the **Logs** tab to check for messages such as:

   ```
   [Managed-by]: Loaded managed ...
   ```

3. Verify that locked settings cannot be changed through the UI.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="mac" label="macOS">

**Step 1: Create configuration files**

Save the following files at `/Library/Application Support/io.podman_desktop.PodmanDesktop/`:

_Managed defaults file:_

```json title="/Library/Application Support/io.podman_desktop.PodmanDesktop/default-settings.json"
{
  "proxy.http": "http://proxy.corp.example.com:8080",
  "telemetry.enabled": false
}
```

_Locked configuration file:_

```json title="/Library/Application Support/io.podman_desktop.PodmanDesktop/locked.json"
{
  "locked": ["proxy.http", "telemetry.enabled"]
}
```

**Step 2: Deploy using a deployment tool**

Choose a deployment tool: Jamf Pro, Microsoft Intune, Kandji, SimpleMDM, Ansible, or PKG installers.

**Step 3: Verify the deployment**

1. Restart Podman Desktop.

2. Go to **Help > Troubleshooting**, and select the **Logs** tab to check for messages such as:

   ```
   [Managed-by]: Loaded managed ...
   ```

3. Verify that locked settings cannot be changed through the UI.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="win" label="Windows">

**Step 1: Create configuration files**

Save the following files at `%PROGRAMDATA%\Podman Desktop\`:

_Managed defaults file:_

```json title="%PROGRAMDATA%\Podman Desktop\default-settings.json"
{
  "proxy.http": "http://proxy.corp.example.com:8080",
  "telemetry.enabled": false
}
```

_Locked configuration file:_

```json title="%PROGRAMDATA%\Podman Desktop\locked.json"
{
  "locked": ["proxy.http", "telemetry.enabled"]
}
```

**Step 2: Deploy using a deployment tool**

Choose a deployment tool: Group Policy, Microsoft Intune, SCCM, Ansible, or PowerShell scripts.

**Step 3: Verify the deployment**

1. Restart Podman Desktop.

2. Go to **Help > Troubleshooting**, and select the **Logs** tab to check for messages such as:

   ```
   [Managed-by]: Loaded managed ...
   ```

3. Verify that locked settings cannot be changed through the UI.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Locked configuration impact on users

When a setting is locked:

- **In the UI**: The setting appears grayed out or displays a lock icon
- **Editing settings.json**: Changes to locked keys in the user's file are ignored
- **Console output**: Log messages indicate when locked values are being used

:::note

Users are notified when settings are managed by administrators, ensuring transparency about which settings they can and cannot control.

:::

## Additional resources

- [Troubleshooting managed configuration](/docs/configuration/managed-configuration-troubleshooting)

- [Managed configuration use cases](/docs/configuration/managed-configuration-use-cases)
- [Configuration settings reference](/docs/configuration/settings-reference)
- [Configuration API Documentation](/api)
- [Extension Configuration Guide](/docs/extensions/developing/config)

## Next steps

- [Configure proxy settings](/docs/proxy)
- [Manage extensions](/docs/extensions)
