website/docs/configuration/managed-configuration-troubleshooting.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 12
title: Troubleshooting managed configurations
description: Common issues and solutions for managed configuration in enterprise environments.
tags: [podman-desktop, configuration, enterprise, managed, troubleshooting]
keywords: [podman desktop, configuration, managed, enterprise, troubleshooting, issues, problems]
---

# Troubleshooting managed configuration

When implementing managed configuration in an enterprise environment, you may encounter some common issues often caused by file location, permissions, or syntax errors.

## Locked configuration not working

If your locked configuration is not being applied, try the following solutions:

1. Verify file locations are correct for your operating system.
2. Check file permissions (files must be owned by root/administrator).
3. Ensure JSON syntax is valid (use a JSON validator).
4. Restart Podman Desktop after creating configuration files.

## Settings not being enforced

If settings appear to be locked but values are not being enforced correctly:

1. Check that the key name in `locked.json` exactly matches the key in `default-settings.json`.
2. Verify the configuration key uses dot notation (e.g., `proxy.http`, not `proxy: { http: ... }`).
3. Check console output for error messages.

## Verifying configuration is loaded

To verify that your managed configuration is being loaded correctly:

1. Open Podman Desktop.
2. Go to **Help > Troubleshooting**, and select the **Logs** tab to check for messages such as:
3. Look for messages in the console like:
   ```
   [Managed-by]: Loaded managed ...
   ```
4. If you don't see these messages, the configuration files may not be in the correct location or may have syntax errors.

## File permission issues

On Linux and macOS, managed configuration files must have appropriate permissions:

- Files must be owned by root/administrator
- Files should be readable by all users but writable only by root/administrator
- Use `chmod 644` for the configuration files on Linux/macOS

## Additional resources

- [Configuring a managed user environment](/docs/configuration/managed-configuration)
- [Managed configuration use cases](/docs/configuration/managed-configuration-use-cases)
- [Configuration settings reference](/docs/configuration/settings-reference)

Commit message:

docs: add managed-by GUI label information
### What does this PR do?

This adds some minor documentation that shows how we can verify a
setting is being managed-by, by checking the GUI label in Preferences.

### Screenshot / video of UI

<!-- If this PR is changing UI, please include
screenshots or screencasts showing the difference -->

See markdown / netlify preview.

### What issues does this PR fix or reference?

<!-- Include any related issues from Podman Desktop
repository (or from another issue tracker). -->

Closes https://github.com/podman-desktop/podman-desktop/issues/15002

### How to test this PR?

<!-- Please explain steps to verify the functionality,
do not forget to provide unit/component tests -->

N/A, documentation!

Signed-off-by: Charlie Drage <charlie@charliedrage.com>

website/docs/configuration/managed-configuration-troubleshooting.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 12
title: Troubleshooting managed configurations
description: Common issues and solutions for managed configuration in enterprise environments.
tags: [podman-desktop, configuration, enterprise, managed, troubleshooting]
keywords: [podman desktop, configuration, managed, enterprise, troubleshooting, issues, problems]
---

# Troubleshooting managed configuration

When implementing managed configuration in an enterprise environment, you may encounter some common issues often caused by file location, permissions, or syntax errors.

## Locked configuration not working

If your locked configuration is not being applied, try the following solutions:

1. Verify file locations are correct for your operating system.
2. Check file permissions (files must be owned by root/administrator).
3. Ensure JSON syntax is valid (use a JSON validator).
4. Restart Podman Desktop after creating configuration files.

## Settings not being enforced

If settings appear to be locked but values are not being enforced correctly:

1. Check that the key name in `locked.json` exactly matches the key in `default-settings.json`.
2. Verify the configuration key uses dot notation (e.g., `proxy.http`, not `proxy: { http: ... }`).
3. Check console output for error messages.

## Verifying configuration is loaded

To verify that your managed configuration is being loaded correctly:

1. Open Podman Desktop.
2. Go to **Help > Troubleshooting**, and select the **Logs** tab to check for messages such as:
3. Look for messages in the console like:
   ```
   [Managed-by]: Loaded managed ...
   ```
4. If you don't see these messages, the configuration files may not be in the correct location or may have syntax errors.

## Verifying a value is being locked by managed-by configuration

To verify in the GUI if a value is being locked by your managed-by configuration:

1. Open Podman Desktop.
2. Go to **Settings > Preferences**.
3. Find your managed-by value:

![Managed by label](img/managed-by-label.png)

4. Confirm that it has the **Managed** label applied.

## File permission issues

On Linux and macOS, managed configuration files must have appropriate permissions:

- Files must be owned by root/administrator
- Files should be readable by all users but writable only by root/administrator
- Use `chmod 644` for the configuration files on Linux/macOS

## Additional resources

- [Configuring a managed user environment](/docs/configuration/managed-configuration)
- [Managed configuration use cases](/docs/configuration/managed-configuration-use-cases)
- [Configuration settings reference](/docs/configuration/settings-reference)
